# Cross-Domain XMLHttpRequests with CORS

What is cross-origin request? 
- It's when the page tries to access a resource from a different origin? 

What constitures a resource of a different origin?
- scheme
- hostname
- port

Example. 

If the URL is `http://mysite.com/doc1.`, these would all be considered a cross-origin request.
- `https://mysite.com/doc1` (different scheme/protocol)
- `http://mysite.com:4000/doc1` (different port)
- `http://anothersite.com/doc1` (different host)

What is a cross-domain request?
- It's request from one domain to another domain.

Why we cannot make cross origin request?
- Hackers can exploit security vulnerabilities to launch attacks

What's the most common attack?
- lure a user into clicking a carefully crafter link that sends a request to an application with the user's login credentials
- search XSS and CSRF to learn more

## Cross-Origin requests with XHR

Can we send cross-origin request normally?
- No by default we cannot. 
- Because all browser implement a security feature called the same-origin policy. 
  - This policy prevents `XMLHttpRequest` from making cross-domain requests. 
- The application can request resources from the origin domain, but a request from any other domain causes an error. 

How can we use the APIs available for public consumption on application if cross-origin requests from XHR objects aren't allowed? 
- they use the Cross-Origin Resource Sharing(CORS) mechanism to allow cross-origin access to resources.

What is CORS?
- Cross-origin Resource sharing

## CORS

- it's a w3c specification about
  - how the browser and server must communicate when accessing resources across origins.

What is the main idea behind CORS?
- to let the two systems know enough about each other to determine whether the response should succeed or fail

- applications use custom HTTP request and response headers to implement this mechanism. 

What is the specification?
- every `XMLHttpRequest` sent by the browser must have an `Origin` header that contains the origin of the requesting page. 
- server uses this header to determine whether it should send a corresponding header in the response. 

How does the browser behave?
- The browser automatically adds the `Origin` header as part of an XHR. 

This header gets added to the request header if we send an XHR from a page hosted at `http://localhost:8080`
```
Origin: http://localhost:8080
```

What does the server do once it receives this request with the `Origin` header? 
- server check the `Origin` header and determines whether the request came from an origin that is allowed to see the response. 

- if yes, it send the respons back with an `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` heade that contains the same origin

This is sent back by the server with `Access-Control-Allow-Origin`
```
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://localhost:8080
```

How to make the resource available to everyone? 
```
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *

```

What does the browser do then?
- When the browser sees the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header, it checks whether the value contains the correct origin or `*`. 
- if it doesn, the browser makes the response available to the application. 
- Otherwise, it raises an error.

Note
- even if the server sends the correct response, without the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header with the right value, the browser will raise an error and not let the script access the response.

## CORS in action

Creating two local hosts and requesting the JSON from the local host from another one. 

## Conclusion

- The CORS specification fulfills the need for legitimate cross-origin requests.
- it gives us a standard way to access resources from different origins without the security problems associated with cross-origin requests






