
What happens when we try to implement the code in assignement 6? 
- Get blocked by CORS policy
- To fix it, I must be able to bypass this policy? 
- Why did it happen? >> Because I'm trying to access another website that's not on the same domain using my AJAX request?

What is the similarities between sending a HTTP request and sending an AJAX request? 
- We must provide a method, a host, and a path

```javascript
let request = new XMLHttpRequest(); // instantiate new XMLHttpRequest object - this is a constructor function
request.open('GET', '/path') // this is an instance method of all new XMLHttpRequest object
request.send();             // send request
```

What does the code above do? 
- it sends a GET request for `/path` from the local host (the host that runs the above code);

Some interesting properties of `XMLHttpRequest` object, before the request completes. 
```javascript
request.responseText;                       // => ""
request.status;                             // => 0
request.statusText;                         // => ""
```

Code after the request completes
```javascript
request.responseText;  // body of response
request.status;        // status code of response
request.statusText;    // status text from response

request.getResponseHeader('Content-Type'); // response header
```

What does it mean that `request.send` is asynchronous? 
- code execution continues without waiting for it to complete
- the `XMLHttpRequest` object  uses event listeners to send notifications when the request completes and provides access to the response returned by the remote system. 

Code example
```javascript
request.addEventListener('load', event) => {
  var request = event.targert; // the XMLHttpRequest object

  request.responseText; 
  request.status;
  request.statusText;

  reqiest.getResponseHeader('Content-Type');
}
```

What does the process of sending a request looks like?
1. `let request = new XMLHttpRequest()` - instantiate a new XMLHttpRequest object
2. `request.open("GET", url)` setting HTTP method and URL on request
3. `request.send` - this process is asychronous, the code continues without waiting for it to complete
4. `request.load` once loaded, the event is fired - which calls the callback we created
  - so in actual fact, we have to create the event listener first so that we do something when the response is received.

We wait for the response by listening for the `load` event.

Red Text box note

What does a third argument on `request.open('GET', '/path', false)` mean?
- Specifies whether the method should make a synchronouse or asynchronous request 
- Note that you should never make synchronouse requests from JS, most contemporary browsers deprecate them 
- which means always use `true` as the thir argument. It defaults to `true` so we can omit them!

### Overview of `XMLHttpRequest` Methods

Methods
- `open(method, url)`
- `send(data)`
- `abort`
- `setRequestHeader(header, value)`
- `getResponseHeader(header)`

Properties
- `timeout` - maximum time 
- `readyState` - what state the request is in 
- `responseText` - raw text
- `response` - parsed content

### Debugging XMLHttpRequests in Chrome

Enable the log `XMLHttpRequests` to the console. 

### Practice Problems

Question 1 

```javascript
let request = new XMLHttpRequest;
request.open('GET', 'https://api.github.com/repos/rails/rails');
request.send();
```

Question 2

`request.responseText` OR `request.response`

