# XMLHttpRequest Events

What did we learn about `load`? 
- We learned how to use it to access an HTTP response and its values/ 

What are we going to learn here? 
- all the events that you can use in the lifecycle  of an XMLHttpRequest

How can we run some code when an "event" occurs on XMLHttpRequest object? 
- First, we can use `addEventListener` method 

Code example
```js
let request = new XMLHttpRequest;

document.addEventlistener('load', event => {
  let xhr = event.target; // teh request is available as event.targer if can't access it from an outer scope 
})
```

What are the two main events that fire during an `XMLHttpRequest` cycle? 
- `loadstart` - when it sends the request
- `loadend` - when response loading is done and all other events have fired. last event to fire

Before `loadend` triggers, what are the different events that can fire based on whether the request succeeded? 
- `load` - a complete resopnse loaded. this is the event that we're listening on? 
- `abort` - the request was interrupted
- `error` - an error occured
- `timeout` - response wasn't received before the time

Brown box note
- The browser considers any request that receives a complete response as successful 
  - even if the response has a non-200 status code or represents an application error 
- whether `load` or another event fires is determined by whether the HTTP request-response cycle loads a complete response
  - it does not consider the response's semantic meaning to the application.

What does it mean?
- it's the responsibility of the application code to determine whether a `request` was succesful from its perspective by inspecting the response within a `load` event handler.



