# Data Serialization

What is data serialization? 
- Review in teh WEB API book
- Data serialization formats - HTML, XML, JSON
- a way for two machines to speak to each other in a format that each other can accept? 
- deserialization is the process of changing that data into another format that is better suited for the local machine?

### Request Serialization Formats

What purpose does serialization fulfill? 
- It allows the client and server to transfer data in a format that preserve information without interfering with the communication protocol
- Note that applications can use any data serialization format that both the client and server know how to read and write


Code example - JSON
```json
{
  "title": "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?",
  "year": 1968
}
```

#### Query String / URL encoding

- Query string / URL encoding is a serialization format! 
- we have to encode certain characters like spaces

What is the JS built in function that lets us encode a name or value using the URL encoding format? 
- `encodeURIComponent`

Can we use URL encoding in a post request? 
- Yes. 

How? 
- First we must include a `Content-Type` header with a value of `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`
- Then we can add the encoded name-value in the request body. 

```
POST /path HTTP/1.1
Host: example.test
Content-Length: 54
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded; charset=utf-8
Accept: */*

title=Do%20Androids%20Dream%20of%20Electric%20Sheep%3F&year=1968
// this is the encoded URL provided as body of a POST request
```

### Multipart Forms

What is it? 
- Something that POST requests use

When? 
- for forms that include file uploads
- use `FormData` objects to collect data.

Is this format an encoding format?
- No. 
- Because we don't encode anything. 

What do we do instead? 
- we place each name-value pair in a separate section of the request body.

What is a **boundary delimiter**? 
- it is defined by the `Content-Type` request header and separates each part. 

```
Content-Type: multipart/form-data; boundary=----WebKitFormBoundarywDbHM6i57QWyAWro
```

Code example of a POST request that uses multipart form data. 
```
POST /path HTTP/1.1
Host: example.test
Content-Length: 267
Content-Type: multipart/form-data; boundary=----WebKitFormBoundarywDbHM6i57QWyAWro
Accept: */*

------WebKitFormBoundarywDbHM6i57QWyAWro
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="title"

Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
------WebKitFormBoundarywDbHM6i57QWyAWro
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="year"

1968
------WebKitFormBoundarywDbHM6i57QWyAWro--
```
What can we node here? 
- each parameter is in a separate part of the request body, with the boundary delimiter before each section. 
- and after the last section (Plus `--` to note that it is the end)
- the `Content-Type` header also sets `multipart/form-data` and specifies the boundary delimiter.

## JSON Serialization

What is JSON?
- JavaScript Object Notation

What is it used for? 
- Used by programs written in different languages to exchange arrays, objects, strings, numbers, and boolean values over the network

Blue box note
- JSON does not provide native support for complex data types like dates and times.
- Instaed, we must represent such values in a format that both the client and server understand
  - name strings, numbers, and objects work well for this in most cases.

Can a `GET` request return JSON? 
- Yes 

Can we send JSON using POST?
- Yes. 

Code example: We are sending JSON using POST
```bash
POST /path HTTP/1.1
Host: example.test
Content-Length: 62
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Accept; */*

{"title":"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?","year":"1968"}
```

What can we node here? 
- The `Content-Type` header has a value of `application/json; charset=utf-8`

Why? 
- It's required if we want to use JSON as the request serialization format.
- The server may not parse the request correctly if this header has the wrong value.

Blue box note about `Content-Type` and `charset`
What is `charset`? Do we need it? 
- `charset` is optional. 

What is the best practice? 
- best practice to include it except when using multipart form format. 

What does it do? 
- `charset` ensures that the server interprets the data with the correct encoding. 

What is the most common used `charset`? 
- It's `charset=utf-8` in most cases



