# Reading Documentation

How to approach a library? 
- Approach it like a tool 
- serves an immediate purpose

What is the key to effectively using a library? 
- JIT

What are the core componenets JIT?
- a solid grasp of programming fundamentals
- understanding how to learn

Another key thing
  - Knowing how to read documentation

What are the different types of documentation? 
- General overview!
  - high-level overview of what the library is
  - basic mental model for how it works
  - a basic syntax example and brief explanation of that syntax
- Tutorials and how to pages
  - to build context, work through geenric usage examples and basic tutorials that might be provided
  - screencasts, video etc can also fall in this category
  - tutorial vs how to differ in terms of scope and objective
    - tutorial - learning a pariticular concept
    - how-to - steps required to achieve a specific goal
    - e.g  tutorial example - Selecting Elements https://learn.jquery.com/using-jquery-core/selecting-elements/
    - e.g how to example https://learn.jquery.com/using-jquery-core/faq/how-do-i-select-an-item-using-class-or-id/
    - what is common - practical understanding - not theoretical knowledge 
- API reference
  - information-oriented - concerned with theoretical rather than practical knowledge
  - dictionary for the library you are using
  - when to use it? - when you need to know what a specific function or method does or learn it's syntax


How can we maximise our use of API reference? 
- learn the structure of the API reference e.g are they structured by module or class, or something else? 
- become familiar with the style and layout of syntax defintion e.g optional arguments, return value, general description, one or more code examples
- leverage existing mental models e.g jqeuery ajax or events. because they are abstractions of fundamental concepts
  - `jQuery` `on()` method -  attach an event handler function for one or more events to the selected elements 
    - notice how this resembles the `addEventListener()` method 
    - there are differences but the general mental model is a useful comparison

## Trying Things Out

What should we do? 
- Build something small with it first with similar features to your main project

When or why is this helpful? 
- Particularly useful if the documentation is sparse or poorly written

## Other tips

- Check the version

- Use documentation as to inform decision making.
  - especially if conmparing multiple different libraries for the same function. 
  - sometimes you could choose a library because of how well written and easy to use the documentation is.




