# jQuery

What is jQuery? 
- library that provides a convenient API to manipulate elements, handle events and make AJAX request

Why was jQuery created and became popular? 
- because of cross-browser support amidst lack of standardization during the browser wars
- created an abstraction layer that took care of all the workarounds

Why have jQuery usage dwindled down?
- Browser compatibility and standardization issues has improved
- many things can be donw using vanillaJS easily

Where is it still used? 
- in applications that need to support older browser
- in frameworks and plug-ins that still have jQuery as a dependency

Is jQuery a separate language from JS? 
- No, it's not.
- it's a library of functions and methods that abstract away JS functionality

Important point!
- try to relate it's functionality back to the concepts we covered in earlier lessons.
- think about how we can accomplish the same functionality without jQuery, and how that would make the code different

## jQuery Function

At it's core
- jQuery is a function that wraps a collection of DOM elements and some convenience methods into an object. 
- can call the function to select the element you need to process
- and manipulate the object or its elements with methods built into the object

What is it? - A function that works with an argument that you pass to it
- if the argument is a string or a DOM element, it wraps a collection of jQuery objects and returns them
- if the argument is a function, jQuery uses that function as a callback when the document is ready. 

common practice to use `$` sign alias for `jQuery`object 

example code
```javascript
var $content = jQuery('#content'); 
var $sameContent = $('#content');
```
Here we are using the Airbnb-recommended style of prefixing names with `$` so that we can instantly distingush them from non-jQuery objects. 

### Collections

return value of jQuery is a collection. 
```javascript
var $lis = $('li');
var $id = $('#someID')
$lis.length // => 3
``` 
even when we use an ID selector - both return collections but it may contain only one item
- id should only return one item anyway

We can check the length property to see how many elements are selected.

- In this case it's kind of like using `document.getElementsByTagName(tagName)`
- Note that `document.getElementById(id)` returns a node that is not in a collection

What is the jQuery property, what does it return and what is it used for? 
- use it on an object, it would return the version of jQuery used if the object is a jQuery object
- use it to check if something is a jQuery object
- `$content.jquery`

# The DOM ready callback 

What it looks like? 
```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
  // DOM loaded and ready, referenced image on img tags are not ready
});
```


Why do we need it? 
- Because jQuery code acts on DOM elements. 

Caveats to node? 
- `ready` doesn't wait for the browser to load images via `img` tags

What if you have to wait until the window finishes loading? 
```javascript
$(window).load(function() {
  // DOM loaded and ready, referenced image on img tags loaded and ready
});
```

What is a shorter way to write the code? 
```javascript
$(function() {
  // DOM is now loaded
})
```

## jQuery Object methods

What can we do with a JQuery object? 
- many things for example, change the `font-size` for all the elements represent by the object with the `css` method

```javascript
$content.css('font-size', '18px ');
```

#### Getters and Setters

- getter method - a method that retrieve the current value for a property of an object
- setter method - a method that set properties for an object

Some methods have both setter and getter. It gets the current property value without any argument, and sets it if argument is provided. For example
- `css()` 
- `width()`
- `height()`

##### Chaining method calls 

Why can we chain method calls? 
- because most jQuery method return an object that contains jQuery method
- `$content.css('font-size', '18px').css('color', '#b00b00')
- easier to write, less error prone when we know that we want to set multiple CSS properties on the same element. 

##### Object argument

What does this mean?
- We can pass an object as an argument to certain methods? 

```javascript
$content.css({
  'font-size': '18px',
  color: '#b00b00';
})
```

Why? 
- alternavtive to chain method calls
- you can set different numbers of CSS property
- Note that we have to use string quotes when we have `-` because this is minus in JS code. 

##### Property Name Syntax

Note that we can also use camelCase instead of css e.g `fontSize: '18px'`  not `'font-size': '18px'`

```javascript
$content.css({
  fontSize: '18px',
  color: '#b00b00'
});
```

jQuery selectors:
https://api.jquery.com/category/selectors/


## Convenience Methods 

- `$.isArray` - check if something is an array
- `$.isFunction` - check if something if a function
- `$.merge` - merge two arrays
- `$.map` - make a new array and transform elements
- `$.ajax` - make ajax requests (easier than having to support different browsers)

## Explore Documentation
jQuery Learning Centre - https://learn.jquery.com/
jQuery api - https://api.jquery.com/
jQuery object - https://learn.jquery.com/using-jquery-core/jquery-object/

