What does the `event.stopPropagation()` method do? 
- It stops the bubbling?
- It stops the propagation after the first event fires? 
- It stops the next event from bubbling up? 
- It can also stop the event object from continuing on the capture phase. 
- As soon as the first event fires, it stops propagating?

`event.stopPropagation` stops the `event` object from continuing its path along the capturing and bubbling phases. 

What does `event.preventDefault()` do? 
- Stops the browser default behaviors in response to an event?

```javascript
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', () => {
  document.querySelector('a', event => {
    event.preventDefault(); // this prevents the browser from opening a new link on the a tag
    alert('Following link was prevented'); // while here we show a new alert box. 
  })
})
```

Blue box note
- Good practice to call `preventDefault` or `stopPropagation` as soon as possible in an event handler
- to alert other developers 
- ensures that these methods run  before errors occur. 
  - else, this can lead to really hard to debug bugs.


- Browser waits for the event object to go through the propagation phase before it performs the default action. (in this case, href new link)
- There is an event handler with a `preventDefault` eventhough it wasn't on the blue button we clicked
- But the it was somewhere in the propagation path,  and the default behaviors is skipped, 

What happens when we add `stopPropagation` to the previos example? 
- The propagation was stopped, therefore the `preventDefault` is never called. 
- Thus the default behaviour happened