# Event delegation 

Why shouldn't we add event listeners to every element on the page? 
- a cost in performance and memory

What is the problem with adding event listeners to every element onthe page as we've done? 
- We must wait for the DOM to finish loading
- Modern web pages often add new elements after the page finishes loading. Therefore, new elements will not have those event handlers. 
  - we must explicitly add listeners to new elements as the application adds them.
- attaching many listeners to a document has a cost in performance and memory.

What is event delegation? 
- It's a technique used to handle events triggered by multiple elements using a single handler.

What do we do in the improved technique?
- We attach the event listener directly to the document without using `DOMContentLoaded`. Why can we do this, because we rely on `event.target.tagName` instead of attaching the event listener on the element. The event can only happen after the DOM has been loaded?  
- Note that we delegate to the document? To hear for all the 'click' events? And check if the click is happening on the buttons. 
- Clicking anywhere on the page fired the `click` event listener. 

What is the trade-off of delegation? 
- the listener may become complicated if it must handle multiple situations.
  - imagine complexity that may result in even a dozen cases.

When to use delegation?
The best way is to 
  - start with binding event handlers directly to elements when a project is new and small
As the code grows in size and complexity
  - delegation may make sense to reduce the number of event handlers required.

Blue Box Note
- we don't need to use `document` as the delegator.
- we can delegrate events to any common ancestor element of the elements we want to monitor.
- we can have more than one element handling delegated events if it makes sense

Note
- jQuery includes functionality that makes delegation comparatively easy while avoiding the complexity drawback? 
- Why? 
