Next, we're going to focus on JS code that uses event listeners. They are also known as event handlers. 

event listeners = event handlers. 

What are event listeners? 
- They are functions that the JS runtime calls when a particular event occurs. 

What are the four steps needed to setup and event handler:
1. **Identify the event you need to handle.** e.g user actions, page lifecycle, etc
2. **Identify the element that will receive the event. ** e.g a button, an input field etc
3. **Define a function to call when this event occurs. ** The function is passed a single argument, `event` object.
4. **Register the function as an event listener. ** This step brings the first three together into a working system.

What is step 3 about? 
- It's the function that defines what's supposed to happen when the event happens.
- In this case, we are trying to show an alert with the message that was typed into the form.

What is step 4? 
- Writing out the `document.addEventListener` with all of the above. 
- Don't forget that we should write code withint `DOMContentLoaded` event listener? 
  - Otherwise we cannot access the `button` element because the DOM hasn't been created.

What is `GlobalEventHandlers` mixin?
- It's another way to register a function as an event listener. 

Comparison between normal vs mixin
```javascript
document.addEventListner('DOMContentLoaded', () => {
  let button = document.getElementById('alert');
  button.addEventListener('click', (event) => {
    let message = document.getElementById('message').value;
    alert(message);
  })
})

// Notice how we can use the onclick property / method on button
// There are others such as `onsubmit` or `onclick`

document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', () => {
  let button = document.getElementById('alert');
  button.onclick = displayAlert;
})
```

What should we note about `GlobalEventHandlers`?
- Not the equivalent of using `addEventListener`.
- For example, with `onClick`, you can't use it to add multiple event listeners. \
- use `caniuse` to check browser compatitbility.



